The debug console can help us learn the status of any transaction that has
been performed and can also provide insight into the size of the mempool.
In this video, we'll utilize the debug console to
explore the current state of transactions within the mempool.
We'll cover three commands related to the mempool.
getmempoolinfo, getrawmempool, and getmempool entry.
These commands help you
access transactions that haven't been added to the blockchain yet.
First, let's look at getmempoolinfo.
getmempoolinfo returns details on the active state of transactions in the memory pool.
This is a quick way to see some basic mempool information.
Using help, you can see it return to things like size,
bytes, usage, and other information.
Let's run the command to see what we get.
Here we can see there are currently
this many transactions in the mempool taking up this much space.
If your node hasn't been fully synchronized yet you
won't see any of the information for transactions pending in
the mempool that's because you're wallet downloads
the existing transaction history before moving on to the mempool.
So, if you don't see anything when running
these commands it might be because your wallet is still synchronizing.
In this case, just wait a bit longer and try
this command out once the blockchain is fully synced.
Next, let's try a new command, getrawmempool,
getrawmempool returns a list of all transaction IDs in the memory pool.
Using the help function,
we can see the output will return the transaction ID,
size, fee, and other important mempool data.
Now, try running this command yourself by typing getrawmempool.
If it doesn't show up in your console,
it could again be that you're not fully synced to the blockchain.
Just wait a bit longer and come back once the mempool is synced.
What you'll see is a long list of transaction IDs.
You can check out the details of these transactions using a few other commands.
One way to explore these transactions even further is by using getmempoolentry.
This command returns mempool data for a given transaction.
Using help you can see that you'll need to
provide it with a transaction ID from the mempool.
You can use one of the transaction IDs that we just saw
when we ran getrawmempool. So, let's try it.
Type getmempoolentry then paste one of the IDs in after this command.
You might notice that this actually returns
an error saying the transaction is not in the mempool.
This is one time where it's helpful to really understand
the concepts to better understand what's going on here.
If you remember, the mempool is just the waiting place for
transactions before they get accepted into the blockchain.
What that means is that the transaction ID you just saw a minute ago might have been
accepted into the blockchain in the time it took you to run getrawmempool with it's ID.
In that case, you're getting an error because you're looking
for a transaction that's not in the mempool anymore.
To get around this run getrawmempool and try to quickly inspect
this transaction with getmempoolentry before it gets accepted into a block.
So, that wraps up some basic commands for getting started with the mempool.
To recap, we just went over getmempoolinfo, getrawmempool and getmempoolentry.
If you need to, wait a bit longer for you're wallet to sink
then try exploring the mempool for yourself once it's ready.